Eclorean Ledger is a narrative-first campaign companion tool designed to take a user's world-building work and integrate into an application that can automate the 'life around the party' to make the world much more immersive and truly feel alive. Out of the box, users start in a settlement with 3 Categories: Survival, Safety, and Economy. Each of those categories has 3 sub-categories, called Attributes. Survival's are Food, Supplies, and Medical Capacity. Safey's are Defensive Infrastructure, Intelligence, and Garrison. Economy's are Labor Pool, Trade, and Craftsmanship.

Players must balance resources to keep the settlement alive and healthy. Things like food and intelligence decrease every turn, without building upgrades. Users can use their resources and gold, accumulated via tax, to build buildings or upgrade them, providing a number of settlement-focused benefits. As the settlement levels up, buildings can be upgraded further, with plans for diverging upgrades, eg Walls to Fortified Walls or Walls to Watchtowers.

In any case, the heart of the game is the Event System. Each turn, it will measure a settlement's stats and narrative details and recommend events to happen to the settlement. The user has a choice to use the event as is, customize any of its details, and or delay or dismiss it. Turns can be set as either days, weeks, months, or years and, ultimately, the DM sets the frequency with which events should take place.

Events can be quite literally anything. It can describe weather events and how they impact the settlement or its resources. It could be political intrigue, a moral dillema brought to the attention of town leadership, or even a custom-curated event tailored specific to the main storyline of the campaign. All events, user-generated or official content, may pull from the narrative data of the settlement. This way, as events are shown, it uses the actual settlement or region name, it uses the name of the woods the player characters are terrified of returning to. They can reference NPCs, Factions, or any other piece of narrative data the DM fills out for the settlement.

Trade Hubs can be used to simulate trade availability, including a region being devastated by a famine or plague or catastrophic weather event. Morale can be tracked in the settlement, providing bonuses or penalties to resource gathering or other mechanics.
